---
layout: post
title:  "The SATORI Project"
date:   2018-05-07 18:12:35 +1000
description: My work in a EU research project on responsible innovation.
tags:
categories: research SATORI responsible-innovation RRI
---

SATORI (Stakeholders Acting Together On the ethical impact assessment of Research and Innovation) was a four-year EU project to develop a common European framework for the ethical assessment of research and innovation activity. I contributed to the project during my time with the University of Twente in 2015 and 2016.

Further details about the project and the guidelines it developed are available at the [SATORI website](http://satoriproject.eu/).

The specific project reports that I contributed to and their authors/compilers are listed below in alphabetical order.

[A Reasoned Proposal for Shared Approaches to Ethics Assessment in the European Context](http://satoriproject.eu/media/D4.1_Proposal_Ethics_Assessment_Framework.pdf).

Compiled by Philip Jensen, Wessel Reijers, David Douglas, Faridun Sattarov, Agata Gurzawska, Alexandra Kapeller, Philip Brey (University of Twente); Rok Benčin (Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts); Zuzanna Warso (Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights); Robert Braun (Institute for Advanced Studies, Vienna).

[Ethics Assessment in Different Countries: China](http://satoriproject.eu/media/4.b-Country-report-China.pdf).

Written by Xin Ming, David Douglas, Agata Gurzawska, Philip Brey (University of Twente).

[Ethics Assessment in Different Fields: Medical and Life Sciences](http://satoriproject.eu/media/2.c-Medical-Life-sciences.pdf).

Written by Karin van Leersum, David Douglas (University of Twente).

[Ethical Assessment of Research and Innovation: A Comparative Analysis of Practices and Institutions in the EU and Selected Other Countries](http://satoriproject.eu/media/D1.1_Ethical-assessment-of-RI_a-comparative-analysis.pdf).

Compiled by Clare Shelley-Egan (Trilateral Research & Consulting); Philip Brey (University of Twente); Rowena Rodrigues (Trilateral Research & Consulting), David Douglas, Agata Gurzawska (University of Twente); Lise Bitsch (Danish Board of Technology Foundation); David Wright, Kush Wadhwa (Trilateral Research & Consulting).

[Models for Ethics Assessment and Guidance in Higher Education](http://satoriproject.eu/media/D4.1_Annex_5_Universities.pdf).

Written by Philip Brey, David Douglas, Alexandra Kapeller (University of Twente); Rok Benčin (Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts); Daniela Ovadia (EUSJA); Doris Wolfslehner (ABC). 

[Outline of an Ethics Assessment Framework](http://satoriproject.eu/media/D4.2_Outline_of_an_Ethics_Assessment_Framework.pdf).

Compiled by Philip Jansen, Faridun Sattarov, David Douglas, Wessel Reijers, Agata Gurzawska, Alexandra Kapeller, Philip Brey (University of Twente); Ingrid Callies (UNESCO); Rok Benčin (Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts); Zuzanna Warso (Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights).

[Principles and Approaches in Ethics Assessment: Ethics and Risk](http://satoriproject.eu/media/1.h-Ethics-and-Risk1.pdf).

Written by Raija Koivisto (Technical Research Centre of Finland (VTT)); David Douglas (University of Twente).

[Roadmap towards Adoption of a Fully Developed Ethics Assessment Framework](http://satoriproject.eu/media/D4.3_SATORI_Roadmap.pdf).

Written by Anna Leinonen, Raija Koivisto, Anu Tuominen (Technical Research Centre of Finland (VTT)); David Douglas, Agata Gurzawska, Philip Jensen, Alexander Kapeller, Philip Brey (University of Twente).











